### Chapter 1: Introduction to Rust

#### 1.4 Hello World: Your First Rust Program

In this section we will create a "Hello, World!" program using Rust. This classic first program is a traditional starting point in learning a new language. It's a simple way to ensure your environment is correctly set up and to introduce the basic structure of a Rust program.

**Creating the Program:**

1. **Create a New Project:** If you haven't already, create a new Rust project using Cargo:
   ```sh
   cargo new hello_world
   ```
   This command creates a new directory called `hello_world` with the necessary files for a Rust project. It will create the new directory in the current directory your terminal is open in.

2. **Explore the Project Structure:** Inside `hello_world`, you'll find a `src` directory and a `Cargo.toml` file. The `Cargo.toml` file is used by Cargo to manage your project's dependencies and settings.

3. **The `main.rs` File:** Inside the `src` directory, you'll find a file named `main.rs`. This is where you write your Rust code. The file contains a simple program:
   ```rust
   fn main() {
       println!("Hello, world!");
   }
   ```

4. **Understanding the Code:**
   - `fn main() { ... }` defines a function in Rust. Here, `main` is the entry point of the program.
   - `println!("Hello, world!");` is a macro that prints text to the console.

5. **Run the Program:** Navigate to the new hello_world directory in your terminal and use Cargo to compile and run the program:
   ```sh
   cargo run
   ```
   If you see `Hello, world!` in the output, that means your environment is working properly.

**The Significance of 'Hello, World!' in Rust:**

- This program, though simple, showcases some of Rust's features, like its use of macros (`println!`) and the function definition syntax.
- It also demonstrates the ease of using Cargo, Rust's package manager and build system, to manage and run Rust programs.

---

[Home](/) / [Prev](Chapter_1/1_3.md) / [Next](Chapter_1/1_5.md)